test/testcases.md, before:

# Editor.js specs

This document will describe various test cases of the editor.js functionality. Features will be organized by modules. Cases covered by tests should be marked by the check mark.

## Configuration

- [ ] Zero configuration
  - [ ] Editor.js should be initialized on element with the default `editorjs` id.
  - [ ] Editor.js should throw an error in case when there is no element with `editorjs` id.
  - [ ] Editor.js should be initialized with the Paragraph tool only
  - [ ] The Inline Toolbar of the Paragraph tool should contain all default Inline Tools - `bold`, `italic`, `link`

- [ ] `holder` property
  - [ ] Editor.js should be initialized on the element with passed via `holder` property
  - [ ] Editor.js should throw an error if passed `holder` value is not an Element node

- [ ] `autofocus` property
  - [ ] With the empty editor
    - [ ] If `true` passed, the caret should be placed to the first empty block
    - [ ] If `false` passed, the caret shouldn't be placed anywhere
    - [ ] If omitted the caret shouldn't be placed anywhere
  - [ ] With the not-empty editor
    - [ ] If `true` passed, the caret should be placed to the end of the last block
    - [ ] If `false` passed, the caret shouldn't be placed anywhere
    - [ ] If omitted the caret shouldn't be placed anywhere

- [ ] `placeholder` property
  - [ ] With the empty editor
    - [ ] If `string` passed, the string should be placed as placeholder to the first empty block only
    - [ ] If `false` passed, the first empty block should be placed without placeholder
    - [ ] If omitted the first empty block should be placed without placeholder

- [ ] `minHeight` property
    - [ ] If `number` passed, the height of editor's bottom area from last Block should be the `number`
    - [ ] If omitted the height of editor's bottom area from last Block should be the default `300`

- [ ] `logLevel` property
  - [ ] If `VERBOSE` passed,the editor should outputs all messages to the console
  - [ ] If `INFO` passed,the editor should outputs info and debug messages to the console
  - [ ] If `WARN` passed,the editor should outputs only warn messages to the console
  - [ ] If `ERROR` passed,the editor should outputs only error messages to the console
  - [ ] If omitted the editor should outputs all messages to the console

- [ ] `defaultBlock` property
  - [ ] If `string` passed
    - [ ] If passed `string` in tools,the passed tool should be used as default tool
    - [ ] If passed `string` not in tools,the Paragraph tool should be used as default tool
  - [ ] If omitted the Paragraph tool should be used as default tool

- [ ] `sanitizer` property

- [ ] `hideToolbar` property
  
- [ ] `tools` property

Commit message:

Testcases for sanitizer and tools added

test/testcases.md, after:

# Editor.js specs

This document will describe various test cases of the editor.js functionality. Features will be organized by modules. Cases covered by tests should be marked by the check mark.

## Configuration

- [ ] Zero configuration
  - [ ] Editor.js should be initialized on element with the default `editorjs` id.
  - [ ] Editor.js should throw an error in case when there is no element with `editorjs` id.
  - [ ] Editor.js should be initialized with the Paragraph tool only.
  - [ ] The Inline Toolbar of the Paragraph tool should contain all default Inline Tools - `bold`, `italic`, `link`.

- [ ] `holder` property
  - [ ] Editor.js should be initialized on the element with passed via `holder` property.
  - [ ] Editor.js should throw an error if passed `holder` value is not an Element node.

- [ ] `autofocus` property
  - [ ] With the empty editor
    - [ ] If `true` passed, the caret should be placed to the first empty block.
    - [ ] If `false` passed, the caret shouldn't be placed anywhere.
    - [ ] If omitted the caret shouldn't be placed anywhere.
  - [ ] With the not-empty editor
    - [ ] If `true` passed, the caret should be placed to the end of the last block.
    - [ ] If `false` passed, the caret shouldn't be placed anywhere.
    - [ ] If omitted the caret shouldn't be placed anywhere.

- [ ] `placeholder` property
  - [ ] With the empty editor
    - [ ] If `string` passed, the string should be placed as placeholder to the first empty block only.
    - [ ] If `false` passed, the first empty block should be placed without placeholder.
    - [ ] If omitted the first empty block should be placed without placeholder.

- [ ] `minHeight` property
    - [ ] If `number` passed, the height of editor's bottom area from last Block should be the `number`.
    - [ ] If omitted the height of editor's bottom area from last Block should be the default `300`.

- [ ] `logLevel` property
  - [ ] If `VERBOSE` passed,the editor should outputs all messages to the console.
  - [ ] If `INFO` passed,the editor should outputs info and debug messages to the console.
  - [ ] If `WARN` passed,the editor should outputs only warn messages to the console.
  - [ ] If `ERROR` passed,the editor should outputs only error messages to the console.
  - [ ] If omitted the editor should outputs all messages to the console.

- [ ] `defaultBlock` property
  - [ ] If `string` passed
    - [ ] If passed `string` in tools,the passed tool should be used as default tool.
    - [ ] If passed `string` not in tools,the Paragraph tool should be used as default tool.
  - [ ] If omitted the Paragraph tool should be used as default tool.

- [ ] `sanitizer` property
  - [ ] If `object` passed
    -[ ] The Editor.js should be clean the HTML tag according to mentioned configuration.
  - [ ] If omitted the Editor.js should be initialize with default `sanitizer` configuration, which allow the tags like `paragraph`, `anchor` and `bold` for cleanning HTML.
  
- [ ] `tools` property
  - [ ] If `object` passed
    -[ ] Editor.js should be initialized with the Passed tools only.
  - [ ] If omitted Editor.js should be initialized with the Paragraph tool only.
